# No More Silence sample dataset.

This is a sample dataset (currently under construction) version of the full dataset from the No More Silence project, https://www.library.ucsf.edu/archives/aids/data-projects/. This sample dataset has been created to allow workshop attendees, people wanting to assess the value of the dataset for their research use, and other uses that do not require the downloading of the entire dataset.

This sample was created by taking the first five (5) documents/lines from each archival collection that was incorporated into the complete dataset (The complete dataset consists of a varying number of documents from each of 19 archival collections), with the exception of the Shanti Project records, https://oac.cdlib.org/findaid/ark:/13030/c81v5n6w/, for which data from all documents were retained in the sample dataset.

The sample version of the No More Silece dataset is the file named `NoMoreSilence_SampleData.csv` and includes both structured metadata values describing collection documents (at the folder level) and uncorrected, OCR'ed full text derived from these documents.

Additionally, to provide examples of the digitized documents from which data has been derived, the .pdf and .ocr versions of 8 individual documents are included in the `sample-documents` directory. These files are linked to their corresponding line in `NoMoreSilence_SampleData.csv` through the "Local Identifier" field which is the filename for the document in the `sample-documents` directory. The .pdf file is the image and textual data for the archival document itself. The .ocr file is a text file that represents the raw text output by the Optical Character Recognition (OCR) software that generated the digitized text of the document. These files can be used to view the original scans of the document, understand how linking works between the .csv file and the documents themselves, and re-generate text from the .pdf files themselves if more complicated analysis is desired than can be supported by the provided, uncorrected OCR. 
